# portfolio

# [Project 1: Academic Paper Assessing the Determinants of Child Hunger](https://github.com/rhulanemkhawane/portfolio/blob/main/Research%20Project%20on%20Child%20Hunger.docx)
**The overall purpose of this paper was to determine the factors that effected child hunger. The results of this paper were limited to the variables used in the data set provided. Child hunger is a complex topic with many different determinants that go beyond the variables included in the data set. There were several single and multiple regression models run with variables relating to child hunger. Previous literature research was used to determine several of these variables. This paper found that variables relating to early childhood development centres were mostly significant, as well as race and household income. Variables such as gender and number of people living in a house were also significant. Age and whether the person in the family received a UIF were insignificant variables. The coeffecient of determination of the main full model was 22%. The main recommended policy relates to the investment into ECD’s.**

# [Project 2: Time Series Forecast of Gross Domestic Product](https://github.com/rhulanemkhawane/portfolio/blob/main/Time%20Series%20Assignment.docx)
**This article aims to produce and evaluate a forecast of gross domestic product (GDP) by making use of time series regression techniques. A study of the literature on the performance of yield curve’s ability to predict economic activity is conducted. The time series data provided (containing bond yield rates and GDP results) is then evaluated and used to form the regression models. This article later proves that the autoregressive model with lag 1 (AR (1)) is the best model for forecasting gross domestic product.**
